1.1 - 10/11/2020

Reflection

In today's session I learnt that the web development industry is a rewarding, lucrative and creative industry to get into.

I also introduced myself to a class of strangers, this was initially a hard thing for me to do.

The part that I enjoyed the most meeting the group, learning about different roles and tools for a web developer

The part that I found hard was keeping up with viewing the presentation and looking at the web at the same time (toggling between the two)



1.2 - 11/11/2020

Reflection

For homework I watched the intro video from frontendmasters.com about the internet

Today we learnt more about the internet and it was fun to Ping the Google.com website and realise that the nearest available computer was in France whereas others received a response from computer website hosts in other areas as the website is hosted in many places using Cloud computing

W3C is the consortium that is the governing body for all HTML CSS standards. They have some good training resources at W3schools.com

We downloaded some tools Visual Studio Code, Github desktop and set up a GitHub account online



1.3 - 12/11/2020

Reflection

Today we started using Github and VS code. We added Live Server extension to VS code and created a README.md file. This can contain installaton instructions, general info about the project, who the author/team are.

Unfortunately we got a bit bogged down with different students running into problems and ended an hour behind on the lesson.

Luke was incredibly patient with us all.


1.4 - 13/11/2020

Reflection

Today we received log-ins for the LTU licence of Microsoft Teams. This has many more features and is much easier to use.

By 11am we finished yesterday's lesson

We learnt about several resources websites and YouTube channels to help us learn more about coding

We created module 1, completed task 1.4.1 and uploaded it to Github



1.5 - 16/11/2020

Reflection

Today we started learning about HTML. We learnt some useful tags. We viewed the source code of Bootstrap website by right click view source or Inspect

We completed 3 tasks in Module 2 2.1.1-3, activated Live Server to see what we had written looked like on a web page and saved our work to GitHub. 

Learnt how to wrap text in File Preferences Settings, Head and Body tags, ! --> tab is a handy short cut to create your document type, element, container, stand alone element, attribute, value, nesting. Learnt some good practice tips for setting out HTML and some handy CTRL short cut keys



1.6 - 17/11/2020

Reflection

Created links within a page, to a new tab, to an email package
Linked to images Relative vs Absolute paths
Line breaks
Ordered and unordered links
Tables
How to comment out certain sections of code for further work or to handover to someone else
W3 HTML quiz



1.7 - 18/11/2020

Reflection

Started learning about CSS
How to link html page to CSS style sheet
How to change font, color, size of all or specific parts of document e.g. em/strong words, parts of lists, links to other documents
DRY = Don't Repeat Yourself
Have ~ 10 mins to catch up on via the video download as internet dropped out ~ 10am.


1.8 - 19/11/2020

Reflection

Lots of tasks today. Got a bit lost. Some tasks didn't work or didn't finished
Selector ID class
Cascading Styles & priority
Specific selectors e.g. colour 1 word in a Paragraph
Block and Inline elements Intoduced Div element, Span element
Pseudo-classes e.g. how to change a link when you hover over it and click on link
Box model learnt about margins, padding, borders


1.9 - 20/11/2020

Reflection

Much easier to follow along with live examples today.
Static positioning, relative positioning and absolute positioning of different elements witing a page.
Adding styles, borders, colours, positioning
Z-index for overlapping elements


1.10 - 23/11/2020

Reflection

Finished HTML and CSS section
Created a webpage with images text footer
Styled each item in page
Added Media Queries so it will resize for mobile
Added Google fonts and html entities (to the social media handles)
Looked at Bootstrap for different style sheets e.g. badges, notification buttons
Take away task to complete W3 CSS quiz and redo HTML quiz


1.11 - 24/11/2020

Reflection

Started learning JavaScript
Created an alert, text in the body of the page and in the console (right click Inspect)
Variables "declare" a variable; "initialise" the variable
Data types: String, number, Boolean, Unidentified, null...
Arithmetic operators negation, addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, modulus
String operators using + and +=
Combining strings and numbers
Exercise calculate bill with tip total